Next question... well,
many people have heard this question,
but it's difficult to answer
it. It talks about "just practice
slowly, why rush?" "Just practice
slowly, and you'll reach your goal." Has
anyone here ever been
told to "just practice slowly"? Yes, many have.
Dear Ms. Pham Thi Yen, in
our Dharma center, there's a woman who said, "Just practice slowly, there's no need to rush."
I
ask you, is what she said correct?
The congregation says, "Is that right?" There
's some truth to it, but it depends on the circumstances.
In this context,
we must have these phrases: "practice slowly," "practice according to circumstances," "practice quickly before it's too late."
These are phrases we often use
in Buddhism: "practice must be done slowly,
why rush?" "
Practice according to circumstances, don't rush before it's too late."
These three phrases are essential in our practice.
When we're too stressed, we
have to say, "Just practice slowly."
We're too lazy, so we say, "Let's just leave it to
fate," and "Let's just follow fate and practice, why
rush?" But what does "following fate" mean? What does "practicing slowly" mean?
We need to understand the meaning so
we know how to apply it.
If we apply "practicing slowly" to everything,
in every situation, we practice slowly, and the
karmic consequences will gradually be cleansed. So, if we practice slowly, the karmic consequences will
only be cleansed gradually.
But we
don't like the idea of ​​karmic consequences being cleansed slowly. We want to practice slowly and
eliminate karmic obstacles, but that's impossible.
Therefore,
we should immediately reject this "practicing slowly" approach, right
? Because if we keep practicing slowly, our karmic obstacles wo
n't be
eliminated. So we must practice quickly, like "late
but fast," which encompasses both "
practicing slowly" and "practicing according to fate."
For example,
we meet someone who wants to observe the
Eight Precepts for 20 days.  One month I
said, "Let's take it slow, because if we practice like that, we ca
n't leave
home for
a month and 20 days to go on a spiritual retreat. Having a son would
disrupt the family, so 'slowly'
encompasses adapting to circumstances. That means
we have to observe our circumstances, the
most diligent effort we can make, and what we can achieve. Is
n't this 'practice quickly before it' approach a combination of 'slowly' and 'following circumstances'?
First, we have to identify
our circumstances. Our current circumstances are
these attachments, these attachments, these
attachments, these attachments.
Now, we maximize our efforts, meaning we focus on 'practicing quickly'.
From the beginning, we're observing the causes and conditions, right? Observe
your circumstances and
see how diligently you can pursue them
to the maximum extent possible, so that
you can eliminate your negative karma. 'Practice quickly before it' is a parallel approach. Then
we move on to adapting to circumstances.
First, you have to adapt to circumstances,
see how much effort you can put in to
maximize your efforts so that you don't...
We are lazy and slow, so we try our best
in that place of opportune circumstances. For example, if a
baby has just been born and is just
breastfeeding, we should come here to see how
we practice and listen to the Dharma, right?
And we diligently listen to the Dharma to
contemplate and apply it in our daily lives.
When we are young, still very small, or when
we have children in first or
second grade, we consider how
we allocate our time for family and when we
can, and when we can dedicate the
maximum amount of time to it. That still belongs to fast practice. Fast
practice compared to what? Compared to ourselves? We choose the opportune
circumstances, then we choose fast practice compared
to ourselves. Because if we cannot
understand our opportune circumstances, if we cannot
initiate this fast practice, we will become
slow, we will fail. I must do
this, I must do that, I must do that. Then
we will become a slow practitioner,
not a slow one. We practice slowly,
but everything else is fast and easy. As for the
slow practice, it aligns with
our opportune circumstances, so it...  It's about taking things slowly.
If you don't contemplate
your own circumstances, like having a tiny child at home, an old
mother who suddenly leaves, and spending
20 days a month doing volunteer work, then the
rest of the time you come home and argue and fight, creating chaos in the
house,
then that's not
right, is it? You have to take things slowly, you have to focus on the
right circumstances, you can't be like
this. In the practice of rushing, you have to be slow. It
has to include the idea of ​​taking things slowly, of focusing on the circumstances.
People
say that practicing like this leads to quick attainment, so
you practice immediately without contemplating the circumstances. That's what taking things slowly means, that's what diligence means, that's what
taking things quickly means. I wish everyone
more diligence in their
practice. When someone asks me, "
Why are you practicing like this, abandoning
your house and everything else?" I say, "No, I'm practicing according to circumstances, right? I'm
practicing slowly."
Honestly, I don't have
anything that I can't do slowly. For example,
my footsteps, I can only take one step at a time,
I still take one step at a time, right?
I don't...  Jumping back and forth,
jumping again, a little jump,
that means it's still slow compared to what I
can do, so it's still within
my capabilities. I still call it slow. If it were beyond
my capabilities, I'd run for a while, then
fall, then run again, then fall again.
But here, I still maintain a rhythmic pace; I
do it very well. And
this slowness of mine follows the karmic connections; it
changes, then it increases, increases. That's the difference between fast and slow cultivation,
you know. So when someone asks, "Are you diligent in your practice?" I see life is too hectic already. I'm practicing fast, not slow. They say, "Then how is your family doing? How are you practicing?" I say, "I'm
practicing according to circumstances." They ask, "Then
how can you leave your job?"
I'm practicing slowly,
but that still encompasses everything, nothing is
missing. I'm speaking very
honestly, right? Honest and
beneficial, right? Then we practice
very well. And when she tells me to just practice slowly, I say, "Yes, I'm
following
my family's circumstances. I'm practicing."  It's
very slow, so sometimes our Buddhists
only see that person's diligence,
without knowing anything about their family or their
circumstances. Then, before anything has happened, they start
talking nonsense. Oh my god,
abandon all household chores and
go practice Buddhism! That's envy, the seed of the mind. Before anything, they say
that someone is envious.
They don't know that envy stems from ignorance. If it's not
envy, they should ask, "If
you go like that, will your husband complain?" They should ask
the other person, not say, "No." If they say, "What about your child?" If they say, "It can be
resolved," they should say, "Oh, that's great,
right?" They should say, "That's how
she goes. Her husband
really supports her, he's a wonderful husband. Her child really
supports her, she's a wonderful child." Shouldn't they
be complaining instead? Instead,
without knowing anything, they say, "That's disgusting! Practicing
Buddhism like that, being greedy like that... Even
our family and home are in there, we
don't know anything about it!" That's why we...  You
have to understand yourself, you have to understand clearly. The person
asking, "Sister, in the three aspects of dependent origination, have you cultivated
in your family yet?
Are you cultivating gradually? Or are you cultivating quickly so you don't miss out?"
I've cultivated all three things already. That's all,
rest assured. The handwritten question is: Does clasping
hands in greeting harm the
merit of others? "Hello, teacher.
When I go to the temple and meet Buddhists, I have a habit of
clasping my hands and slightly bowing my head to greet anyone I meet.
For me, this is a way of greeting. I
use this greeting to always remind
myself when interacting with
others so that I can be humble, not arrogant, and
respectful. But I've heard
many people say that doing so
harms people's merit. I see that in
Thailand and some other countries, people
also greet like that. I hope you can teach
me." "This has already been taught by the teacher."
Now, Yen shares again with those who don't
know: the factor that leads us to downfall
is the factor in the mind.
This same idea comes from some non-Buddhist sects
or some practices within Buddhism.
But there is a jealous mind.  It's considered bad luck when monks receive
people bowing and prostrating themselves. Some
monks say, "This person hasn't cultivated their spiritual practice yet, and accepting
such prostrations will harm their merit and cause them to
die." This is what the monks said first, and then the
lay Buddhists followed suit.
This is what I've heard
from both non-Buddhists and
those within the Buddhist community who are arrogant and say
people can't cultivate their
spiritual practice. The act of bowing is one's own business, but whether someone accepts it or
not depends on their own heart. Success or failure depends on their own heart,
not
on yours. If
you bow and show
respect, merit arises from the very thought of respect and
gratitude. Whether
someone accepts your bow and prostration
is what's important, because it's in
their heart.
Therefore, they will never suffer a loss of
merit because their heart isn't a matter of "I must bow to you,
I deserve to
bow to you, if you do
n't, it's not right."
The monks then ask, "Why do we prostrate ourselves before the
Three Jewels to gain merit?" They teach
us this because within the Three Jewels...  There are
Buddhas, there are Dharmas, and there are monks who have attained
enlightenment. When we approach
a monk to bow and greet them,
that is showing respect to the Three Jewels. But
in their hearts, the monk may not
accept it. People still remind us to
greet the monks; they just remind us to be
aware, but they don't actually
accept it. Some people are also offended
when monks, seeing a
lack of respect, remind us, "Hey, young monks, when you
meet the monks, you must
clasp your hands and greet them." That's out of compassion,
but in reality, the monks don't
accept
it, right? If the monks were the
ones who accepted it, they would be arrogant and wouldn't have said
that. "Do I deserve to be greeted?
Greeting me would only lead to downfall; may you fall into
downfall." So, that
person wouldn't have been reminded, but
the person who reminded us did so because they didn't
understand the Dharma.
They would never have
accepted the greeting. We greet,
but they don't actually accept it. Look,
everyone, this is what we've seen before when the teacher gave a
Dharma lecture.  The
Buddha statue is in front, or the
monk is in front, it's the same.
We all focus on the offering, nobody else
receives it. Feel free to offer our respects to the
Dharma, the monk will also give us thanks, but
in front of the monk there is the Buddha, the Buddha is sitting
here, and everyone is bowing, so the monk also
bows to the Buddha, we
also bow to the Buddha, it's the same, there's no difference. The
monk's heart must be even
greater because that humility is greater. That's why
many people don't know and say, "
All day long, you just want people to bow and worship, but you
don't want them to receive it."
So when
we Buddhists bow to each other, saying "Amitabha Buddha," or "
Where are you going, sister? What are you doing?",
that's a respectful heart towards each other. From
this respectful heart, blessings flow out, not blessings. It's
not that greeting
each other diminishes blessings; greeting each other
increases blessings because of our respect, and the other
person sees this and
develops a joyful heart. That's
all. When people from all directions
come to the temple, we bow and
greet each other, and they...  We create a joyful heart.
That way, people receive blessings, and we
also receive blessings because we have done a
meritorious deed that makes others happy.
This increases blessings,
not diminishes them. Therefore,
we Buddhists should greet each other with clasped hands
if our hands and feet are not
busy. If we are busy,
we should refrain. If we meet
and cannot clasp our hands,
we should bow our heads and smile, so that
both sides can experience joy.
Regarding monks, even those who have just entered the monastic life as novices,
we must show
respect because this respect encompasses both the
monks and the Three Jewels. Representing the Three Jewels
brings blessings.
In the temple,
there is a specific custom of greeting each other with clasped hands. In the temple,
we greet
each other with clasped hands, while outside, we shake
hands. In
some places abroad, people hug and
kiss, patting each other on the back is considered
intimate. But in our country, we
greet each other with clasped hands.
music]